
This report gives an update on the architecture of Cocoda, a mapping tool for
concordances between library knowledge organization systems that is being
developed at the head office of GBV Common Library Network (VZG).

<!-- A new implementation or Cocoda mapping tool has been started from scratch. -->

## Background

The aim of project coli-conc is an infrastructure to facilitate management and
exchange of concordances between library knowledge organization systems. In
particular this includes a web application to manage, create, and evaluate
mappings. Since its beginning in 2015, the technical and organizational
background of the project and its mapping tool have slightly evolved. After
some attempts with a monolithical Java application we revisited our original
plan of a modularized web application. Based on experiences with two prototypes
and the mapping data collected so far we started with a new implementation in
May 2018. This report supersedes the Cocoda primer from April 2015 [@tr1] with
an overview of the technical architecture.

## Data format

The core of the concordances infrastructure turned out to be the JSKOS data
format for knowledge organization systems. In short this format is an
application profile of JSON-LD [@JSONLD] for SKOS [@SKOS] extended by support
of mappings, concordances, usage statistics, and optional closed world
statements [@JSKOS]. The specification has reached a stable state with only
minor additions to be discussed.

## Web application

The new version of Cocoda is build as singe page web application using the [Vue
JavaScript framework](https://vuejs.org/) instead of AngularJS. We had some
good experiences with the latter [@code4lib] but Vue turned out to be more
manageable. The application can be broken down into four main components:

---------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
**concept browser**    based on a hierarchical navigation and a detailled display of selected concepts
**mapping editor**     to create, modify, and annotate mappings
**mapping browser**    to show existing mappings and mapping recommendations from multiple sources
**occurrences table**  shows the number of times selected concepts are used in library catalogs
---------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These components shall also be usable independently from Cocoda for instance to
provide hierarchical browsing in one classification. Additional parts of the
application for interaction with backend services may may be pubished as [npm
modules](https://www.npmjs.com).

The web application is developed publically at <https://github.com/gbv/cocoda>
with technical documentation published at <https://gbv.github.io/cocoda/>. We
use a Waffle.io board for project management and travis-ci for continuous
integration.

## Web services

The web application communicates with independent backend services, mainly in
JSKOS format:

* **terminology services** such <https://api.dante.gbv.de/>, Skosmos etc. [@poster]
* **mapping providers** with concordances and mapping recommendations
* **occurrence services** that look up (combined) usage of concepts in library catalogs
* **mapping stores** allow creation, modification, and annotation of mappings
* **identiy providers** manage user accounts and provide access tokens via OAuth2

## References
